Add initial Java SDK documentation (#75)
EMnify/product-docs: docs/sdks/java/getting-started.md

---
description: Step-by-step guide for installing and using the SDK
---

# Getting started with the emnify Java SDK

## Supported Java versions 

This library supports the following Java implementations:

- [OpenJDK 8](https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk8/)
- [OpenJDK 11](https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk/11/)
- [OracleJDK 8](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/#java8)
- [OracleJDK 11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/#java11)

## TLS requirements

Refer to the [SSL Report table](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/analyze.html?d=cdn.emnify.net&latest) for the supported Transport Layer Security (TLS) versions.

## Installation

> The emnify Java SDK is open source and the [source code is available on GitHub](https://github.com/EMnify/emnify-sdk-java).

Author: I've more commonly seen it referred to by popular projects and companies as two separate words without a hyphen (see: [Google Open Source's style guide](https://opensource.google/documentation/reference/comms/style-guide#quick_reference)). This has also been true for previous open source projects I've worked on. We're also using American English, so we should probably be using American companies/projects/publications as our reference.

That said, we agreed on using the AP style guide as a fallback for these discussions and they recommend hyphenating when a two-word phase form an adjective - so I will update it 😊

You can add the emnify dependency to your existing project, specifying the latest version.

:::caution
Regardless of the package manager you are using, you need to specify the latest version of the emnify Java SDK.
The following examples use `{version}` where this should be specified.
:::

### Maven

Use the following dependency in your project to grab via [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi):

```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.emnify.sdk</groupId>
        <artifactId>emnify</artifactId>
        <version>{version}</version>
    </dependency>
```

### Gradle

Use the following to add the emnify dependency to your project via [Gradle](https://gradle.org/install/):

```gradle
    implementation group: "com.emnify.sdk", name: "emnify", version: "{version}"
```

### Compile the SDK yourself

If you want to compile it yourself, here's how:

```shell
    git clone git@github.com:emnify/emnify-sdk-java.git
    cd emnify-sdk-java
    mvn install # Requires Maven
```

If you want to build your own `.jar`, execute the following from within the cloned directory:

```shell
  mvn package
```

## Environment variables

> You can use environment variables for storing configuration like application token or base URL rather than hardcoding them into your application.

Author: Thanks for catching this, I must've missed it during my migration and quick cleanup. I'll update!

> You can use environment variables for storing configuration like application token or base URL rather than hardcoding them into your application.

Reviewer: This has been resolved according to the latest commit.

| Name               | Description                                                              |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `EMNIFY_BASE_PATH` | Base URL to form a request. Default value:  `https://cdn.emnify.net` |

> | `EMNIFY_APPLICATION_TOKEN`  | Variable for authentication via [application token](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/application-token.html). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `EMNIFY_APPLICATION_TOKEN`  | Variable for authenticating via an [application token](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/application-token.html). |
```

> | `EMNIFY_USERNAME` and `EMNIFY_PASSWORD` | Variable for authentication via [username and password](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/basic-auth.html). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `EMNIFY_USERNAME` and `EMNIFY_PASSWORD` | Variables for authenticating via [username and password](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/basic-auth.html). |
```

## Explore more 

Now that you have the SDK configured, it's time to learn what you can do with it.

> If you're new to IoT connectivity and emnify, start by learning the [common terminology and concepts](../concepts). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're new to IoT connectivity and emnify, start by learning some [common terminology and concepts](../concepts). 
```
